README.md, before:

# EEET2490 Embedded Systems Operating System & Interfacing A2

<div style="text-align:center">
<img alt="Welcome Message" src="./public/welcome_message.png">
</div>

This repository contains the individual assessment 2 for the course EEET2490 Embedded Systems: Operating Systems & Interfacing.

## Learning Objectives Assessed

- Practical Programming skills for embedded systems using C/C++
- Toolchains and project management
- Components and Development Process of an operating system
- Knowledge of Common Sensors

## Build Bare Metal OS

- Displaying Welcome Message and OS Name Prompt
- Auto-completion with TAB key: Implement logic to suggest completions based on partially entered commands.
- Command history navigation: Allow users to navigate through previously entered commands using \_ and + keys.
- Deletion in commands while typing in console: Users can now delete characters in their command input by using the backspace or delete keys.
- Implement specific commands as described.

### Available Commands and Descriptions

- **`help`**: Show brief information of all commands.

<div style="text-align:center">
<img alt="Help Command" src="./public/help_command.png">
</div>

- **`help <command_name>`**: Show full information of a specific command.

<div style="text-align:center">
<img alt="Help Setstopbits Command" src="./public/help_setstopbits_command.png">
</div>

- **`clear`**: Clear screen.

- **`setcolor -t <text color> -b <background color>`**: Set text color and/or background color. Available colors: black, red, yellow, blue, purple, cyan, white.

<div style="text-align:center">
    <img alt="Setcolor Command" src="./public/setcolor_command.png">
</div>

- **`showinfo`**: Show board revision and board MAC address.

- **`setbaudrate <baud rates>`**: Set desired baud rates. Baud rates would include 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200.

- **`setdatabits <the number of data bits>`**: Set the number of data bits. Data bits: 5, 6, 7, or 8.

- **`setstopbits <1 or 2>`**: Select between one or two stop bits. Options: 1 or 2.

- **`setparity <none, even or odd>`**: Configure parity. Options: none, even, or odd.

- **`sethandshaking <on or off>`**: Set handshaking between CTS and RTS.

## How To Run Locally

1. **`/Makefile`**: Open the `/Makefile` file and adjust the configuration according to your setup. If you're using a Raspberry Pi 3, set `-M raspi3`, and for Raspberry Pi 4, set `-M raspi4`. If you're running the program in an environment like Visual Studio Code using QEMU emulation, ensure to match the configuration in the Makefile. Note that QEMU only supports Raspberry Pi 3 emulation.
   
2. **`/header/gpio.h`**: Depending on your machine configuration set in the previous step, define the machine name in the `gpio.h` file. If you're using a Raspberry Pi 3, set `#define RPI3` in the first line. Otherwise, you can comment it out or manually change it to `#define RPI4`.

3. Run the command `make` in your terminal.

4. Enjoy using KimOS!

## Default UART Configuration in KimOS System

1. Baudrate: 115200
2. Data Bits: 8
3. Stop Bits: 2
4. Parity: None
5. Handshaking: Off

Ensure that your terminal configuration matches the settings in the KimOS system; otherwise, the program may not run properly. Once the program starts successfully, you can change the configuration using KimOS's commands and guidance.

Commit message:

feat: README - kernel8.img guide

README.md, after:

# EEET2490 Embedded Systems Operating System & Interfacing A2

<div style="text-align:center">
<img alt="Welcome Message" src="./public/welcome_message.png">
</div>

This repository contains the individual assessment 2 for the course EEET2490 Embedded Systems: Operating Systems & Interfacing.

## Learning Objectives Assessed

- Practical Programming skills for embedded systems using C/C++
- Toolchains and project management
- Components and Development Process of an operating system
- Knowledge of Common Sensors

## Build Bare Metal OS

- Displaying Welcome Message and OS Name Prompt
- Auto-completion with TAB key: Implement logic to suggest completions based on partially entered commands.
- Command history navigation: Allow users to navigate through previously entered commands using \_ and + keys.
- Deletion in commands while typing in console: Users can now delete characters in their command input by using the backspace or delete keys.
- Implement specific commands as described.

### Available Commands and Descriptions

- **`help`**: Show brief information of all commands.

<div style="text-align:center">
<img alt="Help Command" src="./public/help_command.png">
</div>

- **`help <command_name>`**: Show full information of a specific command.

<div style="text-align:center">
<img alt="Help Setstopbits Command" src="./public/help_setstopbits_command.png">
</div>

- **`clear`**: Clear screen.

- **`setcolor -t <text color> -b <background color>`**: Set text color and/or background color. Available colors: black, red, yellow, blue, purple, cyan, white.

<div style="text-align:center">
    <img alt="Setcolor Command" src="./public/setcolor_command.png">
</div>

- **`showinfo`**: Show board revision and board MAC address.

- **`setbaudrate <baud rates>`**: Set desired baud rates. Baud rates would include 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200.

- **`setdatabits <the number of data bits>`**: Set the number of data bits. Data bits: 5, 6, 7, or 8.

- **`setstopbits <1 or 2>`**: Select between one or two stop bits. Options: 1 or 2.

- **`setparity <none, even or odd>`**: Configure parity. Options: none, even, or odd.

- **`sethandshaking <on or off>`**: Set handshaking between CTS and RTS.

## How To Run Locally

1. **`/Makefile`**: Open the `/Makefile` file and adjust the configuration according to your setup. If you're using a Raspberry Pi 3, set `-M raspi3`, and for Raspberry Pi 4, set `-M raspi4`. If you're running the program in an environment like Visual Studio Code using QEMU emulation, ensure to match the configuration in the Makefile. Note that QEMU only supports Raspberry Pi 3 emulation.
   
2. **`/header/gpio.h`**: Depending on your machine configuration set in the previous step, define the machine name in the `gpio.h` file. If you're using a Raspberry Pi 3, set `#define RPI3` in the first line. Otherwise, you can comment it out or manually change it to `#define RPI4`.

3. Run the command `make` in your terminal. If you are using an external terminal such as Tera Term with a board, ensure to copy the `/object/kernel8.img` file to your SD card.

4. Enjoy using KimOS!

## Default UART Configuration in KimOS System

1. Baudrate: 115200
2. Data Bits: 8
3. Stop Bits: 2
4. Parity: None
5. Handshaking: Off

Ensure that your terminal configuration matches the settings in the KimOS system; otherwise, the program may not run properly. Once the program starts successfully, you can change the configuration using KimOS's commands and guidance.
